---
layout: page
title: Cube 3000
description: Oversized fidget cube that also vibrates.
img: assets/img/projects-thumbnail-cube3000.jpg
importance: 2
category: Courses
related_publications: false
---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/coursesActivities-cube3000.jpg" title="Image of Cube 3000" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

## Executive Summary (copy-pasted):

The Cube 3000 is a 3.5 inch fidget cube with electronic and non-electronic
fidgets. The cube was designed to benefit children with autism and ADHD.
Children with autism enjoy repetitive behaviors which are offered with the
many fidgets on the cube. The cube offers an outlet for all the pent-up
energy that children with ADHD have. Each cube face has a variety of
fidgets. Side 4 has three buttons. The bottom white button is the one/off
switch for the entire system. The red and blue buttons turn on separate
motors to vibrate the cube. Side 6 has multiple switches to flick back and
forth in addition to ball bearings to roll around. Side 1 contains the
controlling knobs for the lights. Each knob adjusts the brightness of the
red, blue, or yellow light which can be seen through the translucent top
face. Side 3 contains three gears for fidgeting while also including a
slider. Lastly, the bottom is the battery access panel which is a textured
surface that the user can run their hand over and must be unscrewed to reach
the battery for safety purposes. All of this was constructed with
lightweight materials surrounded by silicon corner protectors to reduce
sharp edges in addition to providing cushioning in the case of a fall. Gaps
were minimized to prevent children from reaching the electronic components.
The material used for the shell was pine wood. The motors, dials, ball
bearings, battery casing, and buttons were premade. The rest of the cube was
made out of 3-D printed materials. Although $183.80 out of the
$200 budget was spent, the effective cost to construct the fidget
cube was $44.13.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/coursesActivities-cube3000circuit.png" title="Circuit diagram of the electronic components" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Circuit diagram of the electronic components.
</div>
